Welcome back.
Earlier in the week,
you used a Naive Bayes
method to classify tweets.
But that can be used
to do a number of
other things like identify
who's an author of a text.
I will give you a few ideas
of what those things may be.
When you use Naive Bayes to
predict the sentiments
of a tweet,
what you're actually doing is
estimating the probability for
each class by using
the joint probability of
the words in classes.
The Naive Bayes formula is
just the ratio between
these two probabilities,
the products of the priors
and the likelihoods.
You can use this ratio between
conditional
probabilities for much
more than sentiment analysis.
For one, you could do
author identification.
If you had two large corporal,
each written by
different authors,
you could train the model
to recognize whether
a new document was written
by one or the other.
Or if you had some works by
Shakespeare and some
works by Hemingway,
you could calculate
the Lambda for
each word to predict how likely
a new word is to be used by
Shakespeare or
alternatively by Hemingway.
This method also allows you
to determine author identity.
Another common use
is spam filtering.
Using information
taken from the sender,
subject and content, you could
decide whether an
email is spam or not.
One of the earliest uses of
Naive Bayes was filtering between
relevant and irrelevant
documents in a database.
Given the sets of keywords
in a query, in this case,
you only needed to calculate
the likelihood of the
documents given the query.
You can't know beforehand what's
irrelevant or a relevant
document looks like.
So you can compute the
likelihood for each document in
your dataset and then store
the documents based
on its likelihoods.
You can choose to keep
the first M results or
the ones that have a likelihood
larger than a certain threshold.
Finally, you can also use
Naive Bayes for word
disambiguation,
which is to say, breaking
down words for
contextual clarity.
Consider that you have only
two possible interpretations
of a given word within a text.
Let's say you don't know if
the word bank in your reading is
referring to the bank of
a river or to a
financial institution.
To disambiguate your word,
calculate the score
of the document,
given that it refers to
each one of the
possible meanings.
In this case, if the text
refers to the concept
of river instead of
the concept of money,
then the score will be bigger
than one. That's cool.
In summary, Bayes Rule and
it's naive approximation
has a wide range of applications
in sentiment analysis,
author identification,
information retrieval
and word disambiguation.
It's a popular method since it's
relatively simple to
train, use and interpret.
You'll be using
the Bayes rule and
Naive Bayes again
in the weeks ahead.
Now you are fully equipped.
As you've seen in this video,
Naive Bayes can be used for
many classification tasks.
Next, I will show you
the assumptions that underlie
the Naive Bayes method.